\"  Copyright 2020 Jorg Bartnick
\"  Based on the Brainfuck interpreter by
\"
\"  Copyright 2016 Fabian Mastenbroek
\"
\" Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
\" you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
\" You may obtain a copy of the License at
\"
\"     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
\"
\" Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
\" distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
\" WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
\" limitations under the License.
.Dd March 09, 2019
.Dt html 1
.Os UNIX
.Sh NAME
.Nm html
.Nd html interpreter
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl evh                \" [-veh]
.Op Ar
.Sh DESCRIPTION
A html interpreter written in C.
.Pp
.Sh SYNTAX
The html syntax is described below:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It Sy L
Increment the data pointer (to point to the next cell to the right).
.It Sy H
Decrement the data pointer (to point to the next cell to the left).
.It Sy t
Increment (increase by one) the byte at the data pointer.
.It Sy m
Decrement (decrease by one) the byte at the data pointer.
.It Sy T
Output the byte at the data pointer as an ASCII encoded character.
.It Sy M
Accept one byte of input, storing its value in the byte at the data pointer.
.It Sy h
If the byte at the data pointer is zero, then instead of moving the instruction pointer forward to the next command, jump it forward to the command after the matching 
.Sy l
token.
.It Sy l
If the byte at the data pointer is nonzero, then instead of moving the instruction pointer forward to the next command, jump it back to the command after the matching 
.Sy h
token.
.El
.Sh FLAGS
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It Fl e | -eval
Direct input mode
.It Fl v | -version
Show version information
.It Fl h | -help
Show help message
.El
.Pp
.Sh FILES  
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It Pa /usr/local/bin/html
The main html executable.
.It Pa /usr/local/lib/libhtml.a
Static library to run interpreter programmatically.
.It Pa /usr/local/include/html/html.h
Application programming interface of the library.
.It Pa /usr/local/man/man1/html.1
This man file.
.It Pa /usr/local/share/html/examples
Directory containing numerous html example programs.
.El
